I'll now show you how to see if the Windows operating system
and its applications need any updates or patches.
First, you need to make sure the Windows operating system is up to date
and it will automatically be updated when patches are available from Microsoft.
To do that, you can go to the start bar and type update.
You can click on the Check for Updates,
that will take you to the system settings update page.
The Windows Update window will show you if
this PC needs any updates to the operating system.
As you can see, this PC is up to date.
If you really want to double-check,
you can click on the check for updates bar.
At the bottom of the page,
click on Advanced options to see the different options available for installing updates.
For example, I can receive updates for other Microsoft products such as Word,
Excel, PowerPoint when I update Windows,
if they're already installed.
If I'm using a slow internet connection,
I can select the meter option and I can
restart the device as soon as possible when a restart is required.
Be careful when clicking on this because it can
accidentally restart when users are busy working.
The second part that you want to make sure are up to
date are all applications on the system.
To check the versions of applications,
start with the control panel.
In the control panel,
select programs, and then click on Programs and features.
In the window that appears you see all of
the programs or applications that are installed,
their version number and when they were installed, and their publisher.
You can then check with the individual publisher to
see if there is a new version available from them.
From the uninstall or change a program window,
you see all of the different programs that are installed on
this Windows PC along with their publisher when they were installed,
their size, and then even the version number.
You can go to the publisher's website to learn if there's
a more recent version that may have some security patches.
To uninstall, you just would highlight whichever program and choose uninstall.
Often, applications will automatically update.
Let me show you how this works within Chrome.
In Chrome, we can see the version by clicking the three dots,
going to Help and then About Google Chrome.
This will bring you to
the Google Chrome help page and tell you whether Google Chrome is up to date.
Google Chrome is set by default to auto update, which is a good thing.
Double-check any browser you're on to make sure it's always up to date.
Any vulnerabilities can lead to malware and data breaches.
On Windows systems, the best practice is to use
an application like WSUS to automatically check for updates,
download, and install them.
Updating applications is one of the simplest,
most effective ways to stay up to date on security and privacy.